20_2 TreeList Filter Row: rewrite (#782)
DevExpress/devextreme-demos: JSDemos/Demos/TreeList/UsingFilterRow/description.md

> The filter row allows users to enter a query for each column and filter rows by that value. To enable this behavior, set **filterRow**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/filterRow/#visible) to **true**. This feature can be combined with the [header filter](https://js.devexpress.com/Demos/WidgetsGallery/Demo/TreeList/UsingHeaderFilter).

Reviewer: - a query?
- "To enable this behavior" - this is more a functionality than a behavior.
- "This feature can be combined with the [header filter]" - all filtering features can be used together, there's no need to specify this.

```suggestion
The filter row allows users to enter a query for each column and filter rows by that value. To display the filter row, set the **filterRow**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/filterRow/#visible) property to **true**.
```

> Column's [data type](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#dataType) defines the editor type of the filter row cell:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on a column's [dataType](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#dataType), its filter row cell offers users different editors to enter a filter value:
```

* text box (*"string"*, *"number"*, *"object"*)

* drop-down list (*"boolean"*)

* date picker (*"date"*)

> * date and time picker (*"datetime"*).

Reviewer: Let's add a table with two columns: dataType and Editor.

> Users can click a magnifying glass icon in the filter row cell to open a drop-down list with available filters. These filters and their initial setting are also defined by the column's data type. You can use the [selectedFilterOperation](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#selectedFilterOperation) property to specify a custom initial filter operation.

Reviewer: No info about `filterOperations` and `filterValue`.

> The default behavior is to display the matched rows and their ancestors. The [Filter Modes](https://js.devexpress.com/Demos/WidgetsGallery/Demo/TreeList/FilterModes) demo shows how to use other display modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The filter row allows users to enter a query for each column and filter rows by that value. To display the filter row, set the **filterRow**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/filterRow/#visible) property to **true**. If you need to deactivate this feature for a certain column, set its [allowFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#allowFiltering) property to **false**.

Reviewer: > The filter row allows users to enter a query for each column and filter rows by that value.

I wouldn't use "query" in this context because what you mean is a search query, but without the word "search" the first thing that comes up in mind is an HTTP query. I also replaced "filter rows" because of its similarity with "filter row" as a UI element name.

> If you need to deactivate this feature

It's unclear what feature you're talking about. You mentioned filter row visibility, but this isn't a feature.

```suggestion
The filter row allows users to enter a value for each column and filter grid data by that value. To display the filter row, set the **filterRow**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/filterRow/#visible) property to **true**. If a filter row cell should be disabled for a specific column, set the column's [allowFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#allowFiltering) property to **false**.
```

> Depending on a column's [dataType](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#dataType), its filter row cell represents different editors:

Reviewer: http://documentation.internalpages.devexpress.devx/documentation-guidelines/language-guidelines/misused-words/represent/

```suggestion
Depending on a column's [dataType](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#dataType), its filter row cell contains different editors:
```

<table class="dx-table">
    <tr>
        <th>dataType</th>
        <th>Editor</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>*"string"*, *"number"*, *"object"*</td>

>         <td>text box</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <td>Text box</td>
```

    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>*"boolean"*</td>

>         <td>drop-down list</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <td>Drop-down list</td>
```

    </tr> 
    <tr>
        <td>*"date"*</td>

>         <td>date picker</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <td>Date picker</td>
```

    </tr> 
    <tr>
        <td>*"datetime"*</td>

>         <td>date and time picker</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <td>Date and time picker</td>
```

    </tr> 

> </table>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</table>

In this demo, the Hire Date column's filter row cell contains a date picker. Other filter row cells contain text boxes.
```

> Users can click a magnifying glass icon in the filter row cell to select a different filter type. These filters and their initial settings are also defined by the column's data type. If you need to restrict the available filters, specify them in the **columns[]**.[filterOperations](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#filterOperations) array. You can also use the [selectedFilterOperation](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#selectedFilterOperation) property to specify a custom initial filter operation.

Reviewer: I restructured this paragraph to connect it with the previous one. Also, I replaced "filter" with "filter operation" because the term "filter" (aka "filter expression") includes the data field being filtered, the filter operation, and the value to filter by.

```suggestion
Each data type supports its own set of filter operations. Users can click a magnifying glass icon in each filter row cell to specify the [selectedFilterOperation](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#selectedFilterOperation). If you need to restrict the available operations, specify the **columns[]**.[filterOperations](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#filterOperations) array.
```

> To set a filter value in code, use the **columns[]**.[filterValue](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#filterValue) property as done in the [Filter Panel](/Demos/WidgetsGallery/Demo/TreeList/FilterPanel/) demo.

Reviewer: You frequently start paragraphs with how to do something without introducing this "something". This is when you to start paragraphs with "to do X". Try to avoid this.

```suggestion
A column's filter value is stored in the [filterValue](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#filterValue) property. You can use this property to set the filter value in code.
```

> The filter row allows users to enter a value for each column and filter grid data by those values. To display the filter row, set the **filterRow**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/filterRow/#visible) property to **true**. If a filter row cell should be disabled for a specific column, set the column's [allowFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#allowFiltering) property to **false**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The filter row allows users to enter a value for each column and filter grid data by those values. To display the filter row, set the **filterRow**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/filterRow/#visible) property to **true**. If you need to disable a filter row cell for a specific column, set the column's [allowFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#allowFiltering) property to **false**.
```

Depending on a column's [dataType](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#dataType), its filter row cell contains different editors:

<table class="dx-table">
    <tr>
        <th>dataType</th>
        <th>Editor</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>*"string"*, *"number"*, *"object"*</td>
        <td>Text box</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>*"boolean"*</td>
        <td>Drop-down list</td>
    </tr> 
    <tr>
        <td>*"date"*</td>
        <td>Date picker</td>
    </tr> 
    <tr>
        <td>*"datetime"*</td>
        <td>Date and time picker</td>
    </tr> 
</table>

In this demo, the Hire Date column's filter row cell contains a date picker. Other filter row cells contain text boxes.

> The TreeList supports a specific set of [filter operations](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#filterOperations) for each data type. Users can click a magnifying glass icon in each filter row cell to specify the [selectedFilterOperation](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#selectedFilterOperation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TreeList supports a specific set of [filterOperations](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#filterOperations) for each data type. Users can click a magnifying glass icon in each filter row cell to specify the [selectedFilterOperation](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#selectedFilterOperation).
```

> Each data type supports its own set of filter operations. Users can click a magnifying glass icon in each filter row cell to specify the [selectedFilterOperation](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#selectedFilterOperation). If you need to restrict the available operations, specify the **columns[]**.[filterOperations](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#filterOperations) array.

Reviewer 2: A data type itself supports filter operations or the tree list component supports specific filter operations for specific data types?

> TreeList supports a specific set of filter operations for each data type. If you need to restrict the available operations, specify the **columns[]**.[filterOperations](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#filterOperations) array. Users can click a magnifying glass icon in each filter row cell to specify the [selectedFilterOperation](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#selectedFilterOperation).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The TreeList supports a specific set of filter operations for each data type. If you need to restrict the available operations, specify the **columns[]**.[filterOperations](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#filterOperations) array. Users can click a magnifying glass icon in each filter row cell to specify the [selectedFilterOperation](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#selectedFilterOperation).
```

> The filter row of a certain column allows users to enter a query and filter rows by that value. To enable this behavior, set **filterRow**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/filterRow/#visible) to **true**. This feature can be combined with the [header filter](https://js.devexpress.com/Demos/WidgetsGallery/Demo/TreeList/UsingHeaderFilter).

Reviewer 4: In my opinion, a row belongs to a table, not to a column. Also, is there a reason to give a link to the demo instead of documentation?

```suggestion
The filter row allows users to enter a query for each column and filter rows by that value. To enable this behavior, set **filterRow**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/filterRow/#visible) to **true**. This feature can be combined with the [header filter](https://js.devexpress.com/Demos/WidgetsGallery/Demo/TreeList/UsingHeaderFilter).
```

> Each cell in the filter row contains a magnifying glass icon that opens a drop-down list with available filters. These filters and their initial setting are defined by the column's [data type](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#dataType). You can use the [selectedFilterOperation](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#selectedFilterOperation) property to specify a custom initial setting.

Reviewer 4: 1. Maybe we can use imperative mood?

1. >a custom initial setting

Why do you use the singular form here?

```suggestion
You can click an icon in a filter row cell to open a drop-down list with available filters. These filters and their initial setting are defined by the column's [data type](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#dataType). You can use the [selectedFilterOperation](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxTreeList/Configuration/columns/#selectedFilterOperation) property to specify custom initial settings.
```
